Okay, so you have your secrets encrypted,
but effective secret management also involves secret rotation.
Secrets to sensitive resources like databases need to
be changed and updated frequently,
hence reducing the impact of any leaked secrets to that duration.
Now the more frequently your secrets are rotated, the better.
In order to rotate your secrets,
you need to know which entity has access to them,
and, ideally, an audit log of by who and when the secrets were accessed,
so that any stale secrets that are no longer used after some
time can be detected and decommissioned.
Now in the early stages of an application you can get
away with rotating secrets manually, but as your application scales,
this becomes difficult and time consuming and very prone to human error.
What tends to metastasize is something known as secret sprawl,
where these credentials are distributed to different places,
in plain text in a properties file perhaps,
some environment variables, in the source code,
in the configuration management like Jenkins,
Ansible, Bamboo, Puppet,
and ultimately they end up in source control like Git or SVN.
Now this often leads to duplication.
Now one application might source the secrets from a property file and
another might source the same secret from a database.
Basically, the credentials are spread across your infrastructure.
A good option is to centralize your secrets in one location and
provide fine‑grained access to those secrets,
only giving clients the bare minimum access to secrets they need to use,
so using things like access control lists.
You also want your secrets to be encrypted both at
rest and in transit to the client,
and the ability to rotate the secrets,i.e., change them frequently.
And finally, you want audit by who and when was the secret accessed.
Now, fortunately, Spring provides a solution for this with Spring Vault,
which is an abstraction around Vault by HashiCorp from the Spring Cloud project.
Now, setting up Vault is a bit out of scope for this Spring Security course.
You can check out my previous course, which is a little bit out of date, but actually goes through the steps of how to do this.